can asking questions really winning more
business i'm joined today by deb
culver she's the founder of people first
productivity solutions
plus the sales experts channel she's
also an
author and she's in salesforce we're
gonna be learning dep's story
including wanting to be a journalist and
getting into sales
we're gonna be talking about what it
takes to become a manager
plus deb shares with us why asking
questions is the key to landing
more sales and more new business along
with her top recommended digital
marketing strategies
including seo and some more unusual
techniques
so that said let's jump straight into
the episode roll the intro
welcome to sam's business growth show
i'm sam dunning additional marketing
sales and business growth evangelist
tune in and subscribe today
as i'll be interviewing business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe
you'll be learning their story how
digital marketing has helped them along
the way
and exclusive tips insight to help you
skyrocket your own business
[Music]
i am delighted to be joined by deb
calvert today
um there's plenty of things we want to
learn from your good self on the show
we'd love to learn a bit more about your
background and your story
so some of the key places that you've
worked at up to founding and starting
your own business
and with some actionable tips on sales
business in general it could be to do
with marketing
um and then we want to get into how
you've built up your own company
how you've scaled it how you've built up
customer base and and growing your own
sales pipeline
but if we could jump right in myself in
the audience would love to learn from
you
all right hey first of all sam thanks
for inviting me to be with you here
today
and uh really appreciate the opportunity
to get to know your audience a little
bit
um my backstory is really
three things and if you know these three
things you can probably guess
everything else about me and about
business uh the first is that my name my
given name
deborah it actually comes from a hebrew
word that meant the bee
and that's been me my whole life busy
busy i like to be busy but i want to be
productive
when i'm busy i want to do things that
make an impact
and the second thing is that i've always
been
an obnoxious question asker i remember
always being you know three four or five
and my mom always saying to me
debbie stop asking so many questions
because i would i would just go up to
strangers complete strangers in a store
and start asking them questions and um
i learned over time but i never really
gave up on asking questions so i went to
journalism school and became a debater
uh in high school and college because
those were two places where it was
okay to ask questions and in business
no matter what i've done starting my own
business selling
i've always been asking questions and
the
third piece is this i have a reputation
that i'm kind of proud of as being a
really good listener
and i think if you're going to ask
questions you ought to be a good
listener
that too has served me well throughout
my career and it's it's
been the foundation of every choice that
i've made
as i've been in business so what i've
done i was selling stuff since the time
i was about five i sold campfire candy
and i was always the top sales person so
you know kids club but i was the top
sales person because
i i wanted to win the prize the prize
was going to camp shawnee
and my mom taught me how to use
questions to be more effective in
selling
so that's that's what i did i sold
i put myself through college i
worked at a newspaper because i thought
i wanted to be a journalist but the
first job they would give me was selling
advertising
and i was good at it i liked it i felt
like i was helping people
make the difference they wanted to make
in their businesses
and the thing about selling newspaper
advertising a lot of years ago when
newspapers before the internet were
absolutely vital to everybody's everyday
um the thing about that was it exposed
me to
all different types of businesses i
called on retailers i called on
manufacturers i called on people who
wanted to sell something to someone
in any way shape or form because we had
special sections that went to various
audiences
yeah so i went to a corporate uh night
ritter fortune 500 company
was overseeing sales in 31 markets and
and
that's where i got my my real foundation
in training and leading and
being able to put all the pieces
together before i went into business for
myself
great stuff deb so we covered a lot of
ground there now
this is something i'd love to get dive a
bit deeper in terms of asking great
questions so it sounds like you're
selling from a pretty young age the age
of five selling candy
um with that goal of um getting to where
was it a certain
certain holiday camp i think you said
yes it was called camp shawnee it was
my it's my happy place awesome
sounds like quite a price so what did um
what did your mother teach you in terms
of asking questions because that's
definitely a valuable key to learn at a
young age
yes well she was a marine corps
recruiter for the
united states women marines she was one
of the first ones
and that's selling work so she herself
knew how to ask questions that would
engage people
and she would she would teach me how to
ask questions that were about them not
about me or what i wanted to sell
so she'd give me these examples like you
know what are your plans
she would ask questions like what are
your plans for the next five years of
women who might become marines
and so in selling candy that would be
what are your plans for the holiday
season
because we sold candy in november and um
i would then you know help people to see
how candy would fit into
their their holiday plans for gift
giving or celebrating or
having guests come over and she just she
taught me how to weave the pieces
together
got it got it so um engaging in
conversation
asking questions that are actually
relevant but not direct to the product
you're selling
and it sounds like building a little bit
of rapport
and the start of a relationship so you
could get some business done
yeah and it was pretty irresistible you
know it was november it was cold so you
can imagine this little red cheek
kid at on your porch and the house you
know earnestly trying to sell candy
good fun cool so then later on
you wanted to to be a journalist you're
saying
um which like you say definitely is i
guess all about asking great questions
and
taking notes and then documenting that
for for the newspaper or whoever you're
working for
but that turned into actually ad sales
right so tell us a bit more about that
and
and what you learned along the way doing
that yeah so i spent 16 years at the
kansas city star
i that was my hometown big city
newspaper
and i thought whatever i do i'll just
get in the door
and then they'll hire me over there in
the in the news
department but i was naive i didn't know
that there was a brick wall between
advertising and news and
one didn't speak to the other um and
that was okay
i was only maybe two years into it
before i gave up the idea of moving into
news
not because it was a brick wall but
because i learned i
didn't even want to do that despite my
journalism degree despite my admiration
of great journalists
i thought that asking questions of
advertisers
helping them build solutions that would
help their business
i thought that was pretty noble work too
and
i made that my life's work cool
excellent through there quite a while
um and was that you say the the key to
your success while you're there just
asking great questions all the time to
to prospective customers so was there a
bit more to it as well
that really was the the key i don't mean
to uh make it
over simplified but i'll tell you this
by way of example
so i sold advertising then i became a
manager then i became a trainer then i
became a director of operations so you
know in that 16 years more than just the
selling
which means it's now been over 20 years
plus since i've called on any
advertisers for the kansas city star but
i recently moved back here
to this area kansas city and i go now
into some of the businesses that i used
to call on
and it's happened four or five times
that somebody has remembered me
and as soon as we you know do the old
hugs and high fives and remember when's
they say this to me you asked the
best questions you always really made me
think
right so that tells me that i was doing
something right
awesome awesome so this this is a little
bit trickier deb
um often as salespeople business owners
whatever when we're talking to
prospective customers someone that's
showed an interest in us or booked a
discovery call whatever it may be
quite often i know myself i'm guilty of
just reeling off a list of questions
that i've got as my standard discovery
questions so
it might be 10 or so questions like what
are your goals where do you want to get
to what's your time frame budget so
who who makes the decisions just these
standard book sounded questions
are there any other ways that we can
spice these up or make them feel like
we're not just making our clients or
potential customers feel like we're
reeling off a generic questionnaire
absolutely so my first book discover
questions
it's eight purposes of asking questions
and it retools
those questions so that you can be more
relevant and more
valuable to whomever you're calling on
and then the second book is stop selling
and start leading it's the one that's
based on research with buyers
and we know for sure that buyers
don't like those kinds of questions the
questions that we use to qualify them
the questions that feel like it's a
survey the questions where
they feel like you're trying to do
something
maybe build rapport maybe gather
information but it's about you
it's not about them so let's take that
first one that you said
uh sammy said what's your goal well
there are
a million different ways to ask that
question so that it won't feel canned
and generic for example i might say to
you
something like this sam with a
six-year-old newborn baby
in your home uh you know what what are
your hopes for the future what do you
imagine when you when you look at your
baby
you know and you don't have to answer
that unless you would want to i'm
curious
but i gotta personalize it and i've got
to be genuinely interested
to make that an effective question great
okay so it's it sounds like you're
you're mixing in a bit of
the rapport that you learned at the
start of the conversation um
and then taking that adapting that to
the to the questions you're asking to
make it a bit more personalized yeah or
the research
right because if i'm going to go into a
good discovery i hopefully know
something
about this person and this company i'm
calling on or who's visiting me
makes sense okay awesome so you did the
the journalism gig for quite some time
it sounds like
got to got to a management level and
before we move on to the next
role there any other tips or lessons
that you learn um in terms of sales and
marketing that might be valuable for our
audience or should we jump on
well i do think for me it was that that
declaration of i'm not going to become a
journalist after all
but i'm going to do this other thing
that that i enjoy
i i think that so many people who are in
sales and sometimes even business owners
this is true for us too
we end up where we are because something
else didn't work out
and then we never fully embrace
and fall in love with that choice that
we're making that job that we're doing
or that business that we're opening so i
think that it's really important to
be committed and to find the thing
whatever it is for you that you'll never
get tired of doing
but then don't stop there continue to
build continue to always be learning and
growing
and don't let yourself be stagnant
yeah i couldn't agree more i love that
saying find the thing you'll never be
tired of doing
that's awesome okay cool
so moving forward i think you said you
went to a quite a larger scale company
next step
was it fortune 500 scale company what
were you doing there
yes um that was knight ritter which is
no longer in existence but at the time
it was the second largest media company
in the united states
oh wow and i did yeah um 31 markets big
markets philadelphia for example
in miami and they hired me
there from kansas city one of their
papers to
provide sales training and leadership
development two things that i was doing
in kansas city that were getting
recognition elsewhere
and so i first was in a human resources
role
but overseeing training sales training
and i got to hire in the 11 largest
markets
hire and train and provide programs to
11 sales trainers and 14 in-field sales
coaches
so that's something that was
accelerated because i wasn't there very
long before they put the company up for
sale a few years later
but we made some amazing things happen
in terms of revenue production and
and people development and that's where
i got sort of hooked on that
awesome awesome okay and was that just
putting into place all the lessons that
you've learned in your previous role
um and that side of things and could you
share a bit more about how you're able
to
to make that success because as many of
us know managing teams
is sometimes quite difficult especially
when you've got kind of more than a
couple people that need to look after as
well as hitting
big quotas and big targets yeah you know
we skipped over that part maybe
rightfully so but i was a sales manager
for a few years and i was
i was an awful sales manager i
had no training i had no
idea what it was that my sales managers
had done
to help me be successful mainly because
i was very independent
i didn't um i didn't pay attention to
what they were doing i just was
so busy doing my own thing um so
that too was a good lesson because it
taught me all the things you
shouldn't do to people and you know i'll
never be able to apologize enough to the
poor people who
um i mismanaged uh but
i did figure it out i did get some
support around that
and i learned to be become more
observant and to really be able to take
those best practices
so the question that you asked though is
you know how did i how did i put it all
together it wasn't just what i knew
that would have been a career stopper i
still can't
at this point in my career i still can't
rely just on what i know
it's um it really is about you know
continuing to
bring in other ideas and to stay nimble
because the world's changing and we have
to adapt as it does
got it and have you got any tip step um
for people that are in sales at the
moment and trying to get their way to a
sales management level
to know if it's actually worth doing and
if they are serious about it how they
can go about
converting from someone that's just
focused on their own numbers and
hitting their own targets rather than
managing a team of people that
you've got all their quotas plus your
own
that's a great question yes um
don't take a job including the job of
sales manager
until you know what it's really all
about and that it is a good fit for you
if you love sales because of the
independence and the ability to
manage your own destiny sales management
might not be for you
because you give up a great deal of
control as soon as you step foot into
that job
you have to learn how to get things done
through other people
and that's all about being a leader
manage sales and lead people
and it's about being leader lee and
those are wholly different skills from
from selling
makes sense makes sense that's it i
think um
it's a mistake i've definitely made in
the past where i thought look i want to
be a sales manager i want to manage a
team
got to the role it was really difficult
for me to manage my time
because i had my own quota i had four or
five other people's quotas
i'd not really manage the team before so
i was chucked right at the deep end and
like you said before it's just really
hard work
and not really something i think i'm
personally cut out to do
it's not something i'd enjoy so it's
like you say knowing whether it's
it's going to be something you're happy
to do you're comfortable do doing you're
going to enjoy doing
um because it's not for everyone is it
managing managing people
especially if you're you're quite keen
to focus on your own numbers and your
own benefits and things
absolutely and i do think it's unfair i
know in some places that
there is no option but in many places
there is an option
i think it's extremely unfair to have a
sales manager who is also
carrying his or her own accounts and not
able to then
uh fairly it's impossible to fairly
manage
the the other accounts and and not to
have some favoritism
now that that makes perfect sense all
right deb well um
myself in the audience would love to
learn a bit more about your own business
and what made you decide to take the
leap of starting off on your own
and um learning a bit more of how you've
grown over the few years
well we're almost 15 years people first
productivity solutions
the business that i started i started it
because
night ritter was on the auction block
and i saw what happened
it was almost like a night and day as
soon as they announced the sale
and were looking for for bidders they
slashed so many of the services
that they had offered to employees so
it became one of the most people first
employers
i'd ever been exposed to and they won
lots and lots of awards
um but as soon as they needed to trim
costs
they yanked that rug out from under
everybody and it was
no longer a people first environment and
that meant
huge impacts on morale and on how people
were resourced so
i was thinking about going into business
for myself and and that was the thing my
philosophy
was going to be something in business
where we
remembered and we helped other companies
remember
if you want to get anything profits
products you've got to have
people who are driving that take care of
people
so i didn't set out at first i actually
went and applied for jobs all over the
place
and i was down to just four offers
night ritter was going to be closing its
doors it was time for me to make a
decision
and each of the four offers involved
moving to
another city these were not cities that
i
necessarily would choose otherwise and
we had just
moved to california a few years prior to
this
i didn't want to move again so uh i
literally woke up with the idea one
morning what if i called these four
and asked them would you hire me as a
consultant instead of hiring me
and three out of the four said yes and
i've been doing it ever since amazing
that worked out quite well
it did it did i set rules and i think
this is a good practice too
i set some rules for myself because i
wasn't sure if this was going to be a
placeholder
or if it was going to be a permanent
forever kind of thing that i would do
not at first i didn't know and so i set
rules and the rules were things like i
have to make x amount of money the first
year
i have to branch out it can't be just
media where i know so many people and
word of mouth will carry me a long way i
gotta branch out into other industries
and the third one was i had to have a
certain number of accounts
from people i had no connection to uh
within the first six months
meaning that could i go out and sell
myself and prospect for business when it
was about selling
me great no that's that's awesome so you
set goals early on knowing that if those
weren't achieved then
would you go back to trying to find a
job or
initially that's what i thought and i
you know kept my ear to the ground what
other kind of
you know job offers are here um and i
interviewed with google at one point
after going into business
early on but this was helping me to sort
it out because as i thought about that
work
even though i no longer would
have had to move i realized more and
more
you know i i like what i'm doing i can
do this
i want to do this and then eventually
declaring it and becoming you know full
in
excellent excellent okay well i love
that i love that part about setting the
goals so
in terms of acquiring client step what's
um
talk us through some of the channels
could be digital marketing
could be more traditional offline
marketing that have
worked for you over the years so it'd be
interesting to know how you've been able
to generate
pipelines lead sales opportunities and
some of the channels that you recommend
for everyone tuning in to get involved
in approved
a successful yourself well uh
it was easy at first word of mouth so
this company had sold i had a bit of a
reputation
other media companies wanted some of the
things night ritter had had
so word of mouth got me started and i
didn't have any social presence at all
at the beginning and i built my business
on that philosophy of putting people
first
and of asking questions and really
listening
that was something that helped me to get
other clients
but pretty soon i also realized with
this promise i made that i was going to
get outside of media
i realized i had to do something to have
a brand
or a reputation or at least some name
recognition
outside of media so i started generating
lots and lots of content
and i distributed that on the typical
social channels uh twitter and linkedin
primarily
and that continued to and i had a book
that helped a best-selling book never
hurts uh
and so all this content i just if i saw
a need i met
a need if i had an experience or an
example with the client
i documented it and i and i offered it
out as easily accessible content
tons of it out there and i got to a
point where
there was so much that it no longer was
making sense you know how do the pieces
fit together
my business has a certain amount of
complexity too within it so
to make things make sense i eventually
hired a digital agency
and they focused primarily not on
content production
but on seo and on
on the hierarchy and the structure of
how that
was was being produced and my business
shifted from
word of mouth to a season of lots of
very specific outbound to now it's
actually become
much more focused on responding to the
inbound leads it's almost like going
back to word of mouth
but that seo drives a great deal of
business
and then in terms of social uh or
platforms
my favorite is one that most people
don't know or use a lot
the one i get the most leads from is
brighttalk where
i have a personal channel and then i
founded the sales experts channel
interesting okay so be good to talk a
little bit about that
um yes it's really interesting that you
say it's gone kind of full circle so
starting from
outbound and then working its way back
to back to inbound from
a mixture of the content that you put
out and then also employing an
agency to look at your seo so getting
the long term google positionings and
rankings and then
starting to get clients come to you
giving you calls emails and enquiries
um yeah and i'll say i'll say this about
an agency um i was so skeptical it took
me a long time to go get one
and the first few didn't work out as
well
but i've been with one now for oh i
think we're going on five years perhaps
but they um several years ago they said
you know
you do a lot of these webinars we really
ought to get you ranking for terms like
virtual learning e-learning uh webinar
training
and i was a i was a little resistant but
i greenlighted it at some point
and now in covid i i'm so glad
i'm so glad that i have high rankings in
some of those terms i'm really really
busy
and i it's completely to their credit
that they saw that and
helped me set that up interesting
interesting seo is not something a lot
of our
um guests uh have mentioned i'm sure a
lot of them are using it but um
not something we talked about a great
deal um is it something you recommend
for any business deb was it quite
specific
you know you yes if you are in growth
mode
if you want to grow if you want to be
deliberate
in who you're targeting and you want to
be very specific
in what you're offering an agency can
help you to sort that
out and then they can do a lot of the
work to make that happen but i will say
this
it is a slow process you're not going to
get results in three months
it takes time and you have to have
content to back it up the the seo
doesn't
happen unless you've got a blog or
webinars or something that they
can attach to it won't be the website
alone definitely yeah all about the long
term and great content that makes
perfect sense
uh bright talk again not something we've
covered too much of can you tell us a
bit more about anyone that's not heard
of bright talk
a little bit more about how that works
and how you've had success with that
yeah i think brighttalk should do a
better job marketing themselves
i i think i'm their big spokesperson um
okay bright talk
is a place where you can go and get
content videos and webinars primarily
and there are channels there within
communities so whether you're
in hr engineering security
marketing sales they have communities
for all of the different disciplines of
business
in fact between all of their communities
they have they just crested
10 million subscribers that's huge
and that is huge um and then
people who are subscribers to bright
talk they subscribe to specific
channels and they access the communities
that are of interest to them
and then bright talk targets
people based on their habits they they
do re retargeting of the content to
serve up just like amazon would it says
hey sam you like this webinar
we think you'd really like this one too
because it's got similar keywords
so it's internally those 10 million
people
are are being exposed to your content if
it's relevant to them
we at the sales experts channel we are
at about 70 000 subscribers now
and in my personal channel where i do no
marketing or promotion at all
i i have 15 000 subscribers but they're
very very focused
a very narrow group of heavy followers
and
and it's become it's become a great
pipeline for business i get about
a call every one to two weeks where
somebody says i listen to your bright
talk webinar and
now you know i just really want to talk
about doing business
that's great that's great great
recommendation appreciate that deb
okay so we've covered some great ground
we've learned your story we've learned
your top marketing channels
um both outbound and digital um but what
we'd also like to
ask you deb is for anyone tuning in
that's thinking of taking the leap um
thinking of starting their own company
or anyone that's just started their own
business have you got any um golden
pieces of advice or nuggets of
information that might help them
on their first few days weeks and months
well this will be a bit provocative um
the advice i got when i started business
and i've gotten it
consistently for all 15 years is be
narrow
find a niche stick to your lane go deep
into that one area
and i have not done that i have resisted
that
every opportunity that i've had to
change it i have just absolutely
adamantly opposed the idea
and the reason is that for me what i
learn about leadership and what i teach
about leadership
absolutely informs what i do in selling
and what i do in selling the observing
the research that i do
it is actually quite relevant for work i
do in team effectiveness
the work i do is all about putting
people first no matter what the
relationship is
so my advice is this
be willing to go narrow if you
don't have a reason to be broad but
don't
rule out being broad if you think that's
really going to meet the needs of the
people you serve
so don't don't be afraid to break the
mold would be the broader way of saying
that
i like that
that's great awesome okay well um
debbie like to ask everyone that comes
on if you could thank just one person
for having a positive influence on
yourself and your career who would that
be
and why i've been so fortunate
all my life i've been very fortunate to
be surrounded by really really good
mentors
the person though who uh comes to mind
her name was vanessa she was my first
supervisor
at my first job at the kansas city star
and as i took one promotion after
another she'd come back around she'd
have lunch with me or meet me in the
hallway and she would say
don't change don't let this job change
you don't you ever change
and she literally put her finger in my
face and say don't don't let it change
you
and i appreciate it so much that she saw
what was good in me and the potential in
me
and that somehow it was a reminder that
that's
enough as long as i continue to let it
grow and i'm authentic to myself
i shouldn't try to be something
different excellent
excellent sounds like a great mentor
yes awesome well you've been tuning in
to sam's business growth show where we
sit down with business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe we find out their story
how digital marketing has helped along
the way and their exclusive tips and
insights to help you skyrocket your
business
deb tell us a bit more about how people
can learn from you how people can
connect with you about your books and
your social channels
i hope people will i always enjoy when i
get a linkedin invitation and somebody
says i saw you on sam's podcast
so uh by all means connect with me on
linkedin come visit my website
peoplefirstps the ps stands for
productivity solutions
we give away a lot of content and don't
forget to visit the sales experts
channel too the sales experts channel
dot com because
that's not just me that's 500 sales
experts globally who have contributed
a lot of content and it's very good for
learning for
business owners people and marketing
people in sales uh i think you'll you'll
find something there
that you'll enjoy brilliant deb thanks
so much for coming on
thank you sam it was a real pleasure are
you tired of constantly hunting for new
customers
you could be missing out on regular
inbound opportunities all because
your website isn't on the first page of
google
perhaps you're already spending lots of
money on advertising but your website is
failing to convert
all of your hard-earned visitors into a
consistent flow
of new customers if you'd like to learn
more about our unusual approach
that brings idle clients straight to you
connect with sam dunning on linkedin
or book a free 20-minute consultation
via webchoiceuk.com
that's webchoiceuk.com
subscribe today for more digital
marketing sales and business growth tips
from the experts